---
permalink: /
title: "Welcome to Dr. Zhuoran Zhang's personal website"
excerpt: "About me"
author_profile: true
redirect_from: 
  - /about/
  - /about.html
---
Personal bio: Zhuoran was born on May 23rd, 1990 in the city of Jiamusi located at northeast China. He spent his first 19 years in his hometown until he completed high school education. Besides being a top-tier student in general high school courses, he became particularly interested in chemistry. In 2008, he represented his high school to compete in the national chemistry olympiad, and won the 2nd place in his province, which set the new record for his high school back then. 

Following his excellent performance at the college entrance examination in 2009, he was admitted into the top-1 university in China, Peking University, majoring in chemistry. From there, his chemistry exploration continued with a fresh start in the country's capital city Beijing, as well as in a fast-evolving academic environment at the College of Chemistry and Molecular Engineering at Peking University. He joined Prof. Dahui Zhao's research group in summer 2011, where the research focused on organic synthesis, supramolecular/polymer chemistry and organic semiconductors. In 2013, Zhuoran published his first independent research article in a high-impact SCI journal - Chemical Communications - as an undergraduate student. During his time in Prof. Zhao's group, he developed proficient hands-on skills and gained solid understanding of organic synthesis, polymer chemistry and materials characterizations.  

Upon graduation from Peking, Zhuoran moved to the United States in summer 2013, and started his Ph.D. at Department of Chemistry at University of Minnesota - Twin Cities. The beautiful campus sits across The Mississippi River in the city of Minneapolis, Minnesota. Though Minnesota is known for her cold winter and snow, the twin-cities actually makes Zhuoran feel like home as the climate is very much like his hometown. Later that year, he joined Prof. Christopher J. Douglas's research group to further study in the area of organic synthesis and organic semiconductors. During his Ph.D., he has published and co-authored in four publications. His research area focused on a specific family of compounds called *polycyclic aromatic hydorcarbons (PAH)*. These compounds feature a large pi-conjugated system and are promising material candidates for next-generation organic electronic devices such as transistors, OLEDs and photovoltaics. Zhuoran earned his Ph.D. title in August 2018, since then he has been working as a postdoctoral fellow at the Department of Chemical Engineering and Materials Science with Prof. C. Daniel Frisbie. Currently, Zhuoran's research focus is flexible electronics. His research involves a board range of chemicals and techniques including single-crystals, polymer adhesives and substrates, thin-film surface characterizations (XRD, AFM) and electrical measurements.