---
title: "Studies into the Synthesis of [12]Cyclacene"
collection: talks
type: "Conference talk"
permalink: /talks/2016-06-01-GSRS
venue: "15th annual Graduate Student Research Symposium, University of Minnesota"
date: 2016-06-01
location: "Minneapolis, Minnesota"
---

First envisioned by Edgar Heilbronner in 1954, [n]cyclacenes have remained one of the most structurally attractive but, as yet, unrealized synthetic targets. Structural features of [n]cyclacenes include a macrocycle composed of n laterally fused benzenoid rings. To date, published work to prepare [n]cyclacenes have succeeded in constructing the macrocyclic framework using stereoselective Diels–Alder macroannulations. However, late-stage modification, such as dehydration or oxidation, have failed to install the alkenes necessary to form a fully conjugated molecular belt. In this work, we have designed multiple convergent synthetic routes towards a functionalized [12]cyclacene based on stereoselective Diels–Alder reactions. Our strategy to form a shape persistent macrocycle requires the cyclization precursor to contain structural rigidity in order to maintain the proper curvature. Oligo-benzonorbonadiene derivatives composed of multiple [2.2.1]-bridge units provide a suitable structure moiety for this purpose. Preparation of a di-bridge structure has been achieved by performing two tandem intermolecular Diels–Alder reactions and subsequent dehydrobromination events, using dibromobenzoquinone as the dienophile and isobenzofulvene derivatives as the diene. As the diene and dienophile increase in bulkiness, exo cycloadducts are favored suggesting that these asymmetric Diels–Alder reactions are under steric control. A detailed transition state analysis further supports this hypothesis. Future work to close the macrocycle via an inter/intramolecular benzyne Diels–Alder reaction cascade is ongoing. Upon obtaining the macrocycle, our end–game strategy is to remove the [2.2.1]-bridge unit by tandem oxidation of an exocyclic methylene, followed by thermal or photo-induced decarbonylation. This method is unlike the previous unsuccessful attempts in that it will avoid direct modification to the curved backbone and yield the cyclacene product under mild conditions.

[Presentation](https://zhuoranzhang-ryan.github.io/website/files/2016-gsrs-talk.pdf)
[Won Presenter honorable mention](https://chem.umn.edu/news/four-students-receive-graduate-student-research-symposium-beaker-bunsen-awards)

